My name
is Rocío Picado Herrero.
I studied chemistry
at the University of Salamanca, in Spain.
I specialize in organic chemistry.
This field focuses
on the study of the carbon atom
and all the compounds
that are derived from this atom.
I believed that life
came about through evolution.
I remember seeing a picture
in a natural science book
that depicted the embryos
of different vertebrates,
and in the early stages of development,
the similarities were outstanding.
But when I started studying
at the university,
I began studying
in detail the process
on which
the evolution theory is based.
To my surprise,
I discovered that these processes
were not proven facts.
As a chemist, I’m fascinated
by the distribution
of atoms within a molecule.
It is interesting to note
that in most living creatures
​—​whether human, animal, or plant life​—​
the basic proteins
required for life are made up
of a carefully interwoven
collection of amino acids.
And with the exception of glycine,
all these amino acids
have two forms called D and L.
These two forms are each
a mirror image of the other,
just as the right hand
is a mirror image of the left.
But that cannot be
superimposed.
And what is really striking
is that all the amino acids
that make up these proteins
belong only to the L series.
So I asked myself,
‘How is it possible for blind chance
to make all the amino acids
that are essential for life
belong solely to the L series?’
I reached the conclusion that there
had to be a higher power,
a Creator.
Even though
I had a religious upbringing,
my ideas were not clear
as to who God was.
I merely viewed him
as a Supreme Being
before whom
we would be held accountable.
The Bible
is not a science textbook.
Its purpose is not to describe
the universe we live in
or the laws
that regulate our universe.
But when it does mention science,
and when it discusses scientific matters,
it does so with great accuracy.
And undoubtedly the greatest benefit
is that it allows me to enjoy
a personal relationship
with the Creator of the universe
—a universe that fascinates me
from a scientific perspective.